Zope Public License (ZPL) Version 2.1

A copyright notice accompanies this license document that identifies the
copyright holders.

This license has been certified as open source. It has also been designated as
GPL compatible by the Free Software Foundation (FSF).

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions in source code must retain the accompanying copyright
notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the accompanying copyright
notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Names of the copyright holders must not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without prior written permission from the
copyright holders.

4. The right to distribute this software or to use it for any purpose does not
give you the right to use Servicemarks (sm) or Trademarks (tm) of the
copyright
holders. Use of them is covered by separate agreement with the copyright
holders.

5. If any files are modified, you must cause the modified files to carry
prominent notices stating that you changed the files and the date of any
change.

Disclaimer

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
