.. _topics-jobs:

=================================
Jobs: pausing and resuming crawls
=================================

Sometimes, for big sites, it's desirable to pause crawls and be able to resume
them later.

Scrapy supports this functionality out of the box by providing the following
facilities:

* a scheduler that persists scheduled requests on disk

* a duplicates filter that persists visited requests on disk

* an extension that keeps some spider state (key/value pairs) persistent
  between batches

Job directory
=============

To enable persistence support you just need to define a *job directory* through
the ``JOBDIR`` setting. This directory will be for storing all required data to
keep the state of a single job (ie. a spider run).  It's important to note that
this directory must not be shared by different spiders, or even different
jobs/runs of the same spider, as it's meant to be used for storing the state of
a *single* job.

How to use it
=============

To start a spider with persistence supported enabled, run it like this::

    scrapy crawl somespider -s JOBDIR=crawls/somespider-1

Then, you can stop the spider safely at any time (by pressing Ctrl-C or sending
a signal), and resume it later by issuing the same command::

    scrapy crawl somespider -s JOBDIR=crawls/somespider-1

Keeping persistent state between batches
========================================

Sometimes you'll want to keep some persistent spider state between pause/resume
batches. You can use the ``spider.state`` attribute for that, which should be a
dict. There's a built-in extension that takes care of serializing, storing and
loading that attribute from the job directory, when the spider starts and
stops.

Here's an example of a callback that uses the spider state (other spider code
is ommited for brevity)::

    def parse_item(self, response):
        # parse item here
        self.state['items_count'] = self.state.get('items_count', 0) + 1

Persistence gotchas
===================

There are a few things to keep in mind if you want to be able to use the Scrapy
persistence support:

Cookies expiration
------------------

Cookies may expire. So, if you don't resume your spider quickly the requests
scheduled may no longer work. This won't be an issue if you spider doesn't rely
on cookies.

Request serialization
---------------------

Requests must be serializable by the `pickle` module, in order for persistence
to work, so you should make sure that your requests are serializable.

The most common issue here is to use ``lambda`` functions on request callbacks that
can't be persisted.

So, for example, this won't work::

    def some_callback(self, response):
        somearg = 'test'
        return Request('http://www.example.com', callback=lambda r: self.other_callback(r, somearg))

    def other_callback(self, response, somearg):
        print "the argument passed is:", somearg

But this will::

    def some_callback(self, response):
        somearg = 'test'
        return Request('http://www.example.com', meta={'somearg': somearg})

    def other_callback(self, response):
        somearg = response.meta['somearg']
        print "the argument passed is:", somearg

.. _pickle: http://docs.python.org/library/pickle.html
